# PyBullet for Digit and Reinforcement Learning

PyBullet Simulation Environment for the bipedal robot "Digit"

Chankyo Kim

RoahmLab (http://www.roahmlab.com/)

University of Michigan

## To Start
A lot of robotic dynamics softwares (such as Matlab robotics toolbox, Pinocchio, and PyBullet) are sensitive to the order of joints & links in URDF. If you want to create URDF for a branched robot and use that robot model in a certain simulator, you should CROSS-CHECK (e.g. Inertia Matrix) it among Matlab robotics toolbox, PyBullet, and Roy Featherstone spatial dynamics library to be consistent.

### Model
Robot described in URDF and XML format each including all meshes and stl files for visualization and contact.

### Example
<!-- * Call PyBullet
* Load Digit of URDF in Python Code
* Assign jointName
* Provide Closed Loop Constraints
* Fix Base
* Set Camera Position - Allow Keyboard/Mouse Events -->

1. Digit_stand.py
* Digit stand on the ground.
* No control inputs.
* Start the simulation then Digit will just fall.

2. Digit_floating.py
* Digit's torso fixed in the air
* A PD controller tracks a given trajectory.
* Output all related information (pos, vel, torq, time) to a csv file in data/ folder.

3. Digit_falltest.py
* Digit starts in the air with foot in parallel with the ground.
* Start the simulation and Digit will fall to the ground.
* Record the ground penetration and output the information to a csv file in data/ folder.

4. Digit_pd_torque_input.py
* Digit's torso fixed in the air
* Provide Direct Torque input by reading CSV file in data/ folder generated by Digit_floating.py
* Output all related information (pos, vel, torq, time) to a csv file in data/ folder.

5. viewer-XML.py
* Simple code to check modified Digit XML file (e.g. modifing joint position)

6. viewer-URDF.py
* Load Digit of URDF in PyBullet
  
### Data
All data should be stored in this directory including CSV generated from PyBullet code or MassMatrix file.

### Helper Functions
Useful Functions written in Python and Matlab including codes used to generate convert the close loop constraints from MuJoCo format to pybullet format or compare MassMatrix, etc. Refer to README document inside the directory.

### Outdated
All miscellaneous data and codes that used for debugging, design own controllers, example codes shared by Bullet are located in the directory.

<!-- 4. other miscellaneous codes

* Useful functions for PyBullet included -->
